2016年 07月 22日 星期五 13:05:07 CST:
Is eight hours too short for a software engineer?

Joe Francis, 24 years as a software engineer, 18 as architect and development manager.
I am a computer scientist with 23 years experience and 18 years managing others.

If you are developing software in a focused way for 8–9 hours per day, you are
offering an employer excellent value.

Eight is Enough - Naturally, employers should not generally expect employees to
work more than eight hours per day. Then again, it depends on the environment
that you work in.

Everyone is different in this regard. Personally, I can program from the minute
I get up to the minute I go to sleep and enjoy every minute of it, but that is
just me.

She said, “This baby will be loved and accepted.”

How can one start loving programming? Jessica Su Jessica Su, CS PhD student at
Stanford 9.8k Views · Jessica has 60+ answers and 44 endorsements in Computer
Programming Programming, like coffee, is an acquired taste. To develop a coffee
habit, you start with the sugary drinks, like mochas and frappuccinos. Then you
start enjoying the taste of the coffee itself, and you might switch to a latte,
or even plain coffee.

If you want to like coding, you should start with something instantly
gratifying, like data analysis or programming contests or website building.
Something where you can see results right away without having to invest a lot
of time and energy debugging. Eventually you’ll develop a taste for
programming, and you’ll enjoy coding in other contexts too.

What are the harsh life lessons everyone should learn in their 20s? Thelonius
Poon, I've seen some really crazy stuff I'm going to write a few that are
somewhat counter-intuitive.

1.) Don't follow your passion, it's trap. Job satisfaction comes from sticking
with one thing until you're good at it, whatever it is. Then achieving
autonomy, competence, and enjoying the company of your coworkers. Chasing your
passion is one of the most brainwashing statements our generation has ever been
told. Achieving super high competence in even the worst jobs worldwide will
give you a deep sense of control over your life and self value. Even being an
emergency plumbing explosion technician is an awesome job for somebody out
there.

2.) Relationships that you know won't evolve into something real like marriage
are probably a waste of time. Learn to be happy by yourself and not rely on
your partner for validation or happiness. You can't make somebody else happy if
you don't know how to be happy yourself. Too many people cling to relationships
in their 20s then end up breaking up anyways because of a work relocation. Our
20s are still pretty volatile, plan for that. It's normal to date and stuff
just don't act like its the end of the world if you're single. One day you're
going to be married to the same person for the last 30 years and will reminisce
about being alone.

3.). The real working world sucks and is difficult, but that doesn't give you a
license to take the easy way out. Everybody's parents went through it along
with their parents. School is an incubator that makes everyone think the real
world is easy and linear. The real working world is difficult and you will fail
many times but that doesn't mean it'll last forever. Usually through
persistence you'll slowly start chipping down the wall and be able to break
through.

The jobs that are super linear are often insanely competitive and crowded on
the way up. The jobs that are dreamy but hard to get often involve
extraordinary talent and dedication. Know yourself and decide what you're good
at and choose accordingly. Accept the fact there is no easy way out of this.
You must work through the hard chapters to arrive on the other side. There is
no other choice. Everybody is way too optimistic about this and often get hit
with a serious dose of reality when they face real unemployment.

Even parents hooking it all up for you is still not making it because you lose
your autonomy to them. Making your own way in this world will always be fully
dependent on you.

4.). A lot of women in their 20s still really don't know what they want, but
they think they do. Some legitimately believe marrying a rich guy they don't
love will fulfill them. Others believe they can change men. Date somebody who's
realistic and well-adjusted and never pander to a girl who doesn't have an
accurate perspective on what love is actually supposed to be. Not all women are
like this obviously but society has brainwashed quite a few women (and men too)
to adhere to false gender stereotypes. Be fully aware of this and protect your
heart. If you give it away too many times it will become broken and you won't
be able to love properly anymore.

5.) If you want to be rich or famous, be willing to fight tooth and nail for it
before the age of 30, don't wait. Be willing to starve and live way worse than
most of your peers if necessary. After 30 people lose motivation and their
priorities change. I have a lot of friends who say they want to change it all
up after 30 but I have yet to see that. You need to push really hard if you
want to eat something that's not served on the regular menu of life.

Sacrifice everything for the dream life you want now, because when you're older
you literally can't. It's totally worth giving up a decade of your life so you
can live 50 years of pure awesomeness. Do the math.

If you are above 30 I am not discouraging you. There is no real race in life,
every person’s actual life path is different and there are no statistics to
define that.

6.) Your friends and family do not always know what is best for you. They know
your past and where you've come from but that isn't what is going to define the
rest of your life. As an adult you need to make decisions for yourself, your
job, where you'll live, and who you'll marry. You don't have to disrespect
their wishes but you also need to think for yourself.

They also don't want you to hurt yourself, become depressed from failure,
suffer, be poor, or have heartache. This is why many parents try to protect
their children and tell them to take safe jobs and live a safe life. They want
you to marry the safe girl who's a kindergarten teacher and would make a
perfect mom. Life is not about safety. Life is about doing what you actually
want to do.

Family is not always important. Ask anybody who's ever had an abusive parent.
It's only as important as you deem it, make that choice for yourself.

7.). If you haven't already figured out how to eat healthy and exercise you
need to start by learning to have some self respect. Would you feed your twin
sibling unhealthy food and tell them to never exercise?

8.) Meaningless sex is fun but also overrated. Some people use this as a
tremendous source of validation but once you become cognizant of that's why
you're doing it, you may want to find other more constructive ways to find your
validation. Sex is healthy and normal just don't become an addict.

9.) Doing drugs and drinking is insanely awesome but there's more to life than
being high all the time. Being high all the time disables you from achieving
other equally fulfilling states of sober enlightenment, which also feel
wonderful. Learn more than one way to get high. Sobriety makes you face
yourself, understand yourself, spiritually grow and revolve. People act like
sobriety is a bad thing.

10.). There are lot of mean selfish people out there who are not self aware of
how destructive they are to others. It is not always their fault. They often
were programmed that way and can't help but hurt people unconsciously. Steer
clear of these people. They will slowly destroy you if you let them. They can't
help it. Part of them might be nice sometimes but if they can't control their
demons they are broken.

11.). You can either choose a happy, conventional and stress free life. Or you
can choose a very interesting, stressful, challenging, but often times more
meaningful life.

12.). Accept the fact you cannot predict the future and humans are notoriously
bad in general at predicting their own futures. Generally speaking, your future
will have some good things and some bad things happen to you. Hopefully a
balance of both but that's what makes life worth living. Without suffering we
do not appreciate health and normal everyday life. Without death we do not
appreciate our youth. Life will always contain some form of agonizing pain and
moments of sheer bliss. Accept them for what they are, good chocolates or real
shitty ones.

13.). Suicide is always an option, recognize you at least have a little bit of
control over your destiny. Life and death is a choice every single day. Be
aware fully conscious of your decision to choose life each day. Your family
will most likely be extremely upset but know that if you really really hate
this and never ever see it getting better, you can kill yourself. Also know
that even those serving time in prison eventually get out and return to normal
life. Our life passes through moments of good and bad.

My point here is you have to choose your life. Each day you have the choice of
whether to live your life or take your life. We need to be more mindful of our
choice to choose life everyday. Choose to go to work, see your family, spend
your time watching Game of Thrones. We mustn’t sleepwalk through life. I’m not
encouraging anybody to kill themselves on here, just be fully aware of their
daily choices.

14.). Money is important, but only up to 70k a year. Really look at those
statistics and plan your life accordingly. Ask yourself what you would do if
you had 20 million dollars and never had to work. Being broke is absolutely
awful and poverty is something no human in this day and age should ever have to
experience. But a life of working a job you hate is also a form of slavery.
Free yourself.

15.). Ask yourself if you would regret this when you're 80 when making any
decision. That will always give you some perspective. Even if it makes you a
more reckless person, perhaps that's who you're actually supposed to be.

16.). Don't relax, don't enjoy the ride. Embrace the pain and suffering because
that's part of what life is. Life is not about being sedated and relaxed all
the time. That's for people in retirement homes. Embrace the pain and remember
what life feels like.


What are some good daily habits to increase one’s social intelligence? Learn as
much as you can about being Social. There is a whole Master’s Degree
surrounding this topic. It is called Social Psychology.

There is information on this everywhere, so just spend some time every day to
learn more! Successful people in every area of life keep learning. They do not
stop to learn. Ever.

Look up Books, find experts on the topic, ask people knowledgeable about social
psychology and get as much information as you can. The more information you
have available at your fingertips, the more likely it will be that you use this
information, leading you to practice and develop your social intelligence.


Active listening. Active listening means that you give the person you are
talking to your undivided attention. That means you are not checking your
phone, not thinking about any other things you need to do. One of the best
tricks that I have learned to practice my active listening was to think that
what they tell me next will save millions of lives, and that I would have to
give a Presentation to the world the next day.

That way you have to pay attention to them. You will ask them whatever you are
unsure of and get totally invested in what they say. People will want to talk
to you more because you make them feel like someone is actually listening,
which you are.

This gives you more practice and allows you to develop greater and stronger
friendships at the same time.


Get interested. People that are able to motivate the masses and even people
that are able to communicate effectively with a few get insanely interested in
the task at hand. Which, in most cases, is how they talk with others.

This interest is developed through active listening. As you begin to listen to
people more and more you develop a strong interest in them and a strong
connection forms. But, if you put a conscious effort to get interested in them,
not only will you bring your undivided attention with you, but also some great
energy that, almost magically, hooks others to you.


People Watching. Observe. Watch. And take notes on what works and what doesn’t.
Then: Try it all out yourself.

The best way to learn more things is to watch and try it in real-life examples.
Look at what other people do. What do the charismatic people do? How do they
act? What kind of questions do they ask? How are they able to motivate and
lead? Why do all people listen to them? Why do they receive so much affection?


Develop massive Certainty. Become absolutely certain in what it is that you do.
Drop all the uncertainty and be sure you show that. Most people will be
attracted to Leaders, people that are sure off themselves and people that bring
in an amazing energy.

Make one of those areas yours by being certain about what you do. Even if you
make a wrong choice, at least you made a choice. That is the one characteristic
that separates Leaders from Followers. Leaders make Decisions, and stick with
them. Whereas Followers are unsure, avoid decisions and will discuss it over
and over again before ever deciding on something.

Become a fantastic Leader and you will be forced to develop your Social
Intelligence.

For anyone interested in knowing more about this topic I would recommend
reading The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership.


Self-Improvement: Does a "fake it till you make it" attitude towards life
actually work? Lukas Schwekendiek Lukas Schwekendiek, Life Coach, Motivational
Speaker, Author, YouTuber, Blogger 17.8k Views · Most Viewed Writer in Life
Advice with 510+ answers

I used to be a very Shy guy. I never talked much to anyone, it would take me
weeks to open up to people and I would stay quiet most of the time when others
talked. Having had low self-confidence throughout my life it was really hard
for me to actually go for what I wanted, since I never thought of myself as
being smart or great enough to actually achieve it.

Eventually I decided enough was enough. I needed more confidence in my life. I
was so sick and tired of always being in the back line, always being afraid to
talk to people, and never going for what I truly wanted.

So I began to research. Visiting YouTube every day for tips on confidence and
reading Post after Post online I finally stumbled across one tip that said: You
need no reason to feel confident.

I immediately agreed and rushed out to implement this tip.

That is when I started to fake all the confidence I could muster.

Since then I have actually grown accustomed to this level of confidence and
have lived it more and more ever since. Today I wouldn’t say I am faking it
anymore. I would consider myself extroverted and very confident, but I am still
growing it more and more.

What really fascinated me about this was Why this trick worked. Why is it that
faking it until you make it actually makes you feel that way as well?

The Reason “Faking” an Emotion or a Belief actually works is because it still
affects your brain!

Through learning this trick and implementing the things I learned in my
Psychology studies I realized that faking it is not really faking anything.

Our brains are not able to differentiate between what REAL impulses are and
what FAKE impulses are. When we fake confidence we activate the areas in our
brain that correspond to actual confidence as well. The only reason the fake
impulses are fake is because of some other impulses that come along with it.

But the more we fake this emotion, the more the paths in our brain strengthen
that correspond to the real emotion as well. Which makes it easier for our
brain to actually take those paths, resulting in more actual confidence.

You are training your brain to feel real emotions by faking them. Sooner or
later the emotions will become so natural that your brain just accepts them as
reality, and then you will have everything you used to fake! Written Jul 7 ·
View Upvotes · Answer requested by Hunter Gibson Upvote172DownvoteComments5+
Share

l`G` In a nutshell, why do a lot of developers dislike Agile? Miles English
Miles English, I'm a programmer. 377.7k Views · Upvoted by John Byrd, CEO,
Gigantic Software; Director, Sega; Sr Manager, Electronic Arts; Harvard '91,
Len Lattanzi, Programmer since 1982, and Pat Roberts Most Viewed Writer in
Software Engineering This story is 100% true.

I got hired onto a team of construction workers to build a house. We set up a
meeting with Management to find out what kind of house they wanted us to build,
where’s the floor plan, what it’s going to be used for, who it’s for, etc.
Management said that they didn’t know all that, we should just get started.
They told us that we were going to use “Agile” which means that we just work on
small deliverables and build the thing incrementally.

The developer team lead argued that we at least need to know how big the thing
is going to be so that we can get started pouring the foundation, but
Management told him they just don’t know. “What we do know,” Management said,
“is that the house is going to have a bathroom. Just start there, and we’ll
know more when it’s done. You have two weeks.”

So we just bought a port-a-potty, and screwed around on the internet for two
weeks. Management was outraged. “You call this a house? This is the worst house
ever! It doesn’t even have a tv!”

So we bought a tv and put it in the port-a-potty, attached to an outdoor
generator. We were going to buy a a dvd player and get it hooked up to cable,
but Management rejected the expense request, saying that they didn’t know if we
needed it, and we’d come back to that later.

Management decided that we definitely need storage space, so we bought a boxcar
and duct-taped the port-a-potty to it. Then to our horror they set up some
desks and put a few miserable business interns in there. It went on like this…

After a few years the boxcar grew into a huge, ramshackle complex. It floods,
leaks, it’s frozen in the winter and an oven in the summer. You have to get
around in a strange maze of cardboard tubes, ladders and slides. There are two
equally horrible separate buildings. We’re still using just the one outdoor
generator for all power, so electricity is tightly rationed.

Communication between the buildings was a problem. For one of them, we use a
complex series of flag signals. For the other we write notes on paper, crumple
the paper up, and toss it over. Both of these methods were suggested as jokes,
but Management really liked them for some reason. The buildings mostly talk to
each other but they have to talk through us, so most of what we do is pass
messages on.

It was suggested that we use paper airplanes instead of crumpled up balls, but
the fat, awkward fingers of the Business Majors who inevitably take those jobs
couldn’t be trained to make them. I built an awesome automatic paper airplane
folder, but once again they couldn’t be trained to use it, so they just went
back to crumpling the notes up in balls.

The worst part of all this is that it’s working. Everyone is miserable, but the
business is making money. The bright side is that this nightmare complex is
done so now we know what kind of building they actually needed in the first
place, so we can start work on it. Obviously we can’t tell Management anything
about what we’re doing until it’s finished. They noticed the gigantic hole in
the ground where the foundation is coming in, but we told them that it’s a
cache reset, and they mostly ignore it except when the occasional customer
falls in.

I’ll probably be out of here before the new building gets finished. I could get
a 50% raise by switching jobs, but Management still doesn’t think I should get
a raise because I missed a couple sprints.

App developers: I need someone who would like to be my partner (50-50). I have
an idea of an app but can't code it. Is anyone interested? Tahmid Khan Tahmid
Khan, Full Stack Developer 8.8k Views No, I do not. I'm not sure if this was
intentional or not, but this is a perfect example of how NOT to find a tech
co-founder. Let me make a few points to clarify my answer.

Ideas are worth nothing - they are only multipliers. What I mean by that is
that the value of a product/business is determined by multiplying the execution
with the idea. Currently, you have no execution, so lets say that your idea is
worth a lot. Even then, the value is currently zero. I cannot stress this
enough, ideas are absolutely useless without implementation.


Lets say you do get a techie to help you. He/she has to spend atleast 50 hours
coding the MVP. What value are you bringing to the table to justify your 50%
share? And if your answer to that question is "idea", then you clearly are not
ready for this.

Look, the honest truth here is that if you are lucky, you will get some person
to help you, but it will only be the case because that person underestimates
his or her value. I say this because I was in your situation and actually got a
young programmer to help me out for a mobile app. He coded while I did
basically nothing, and then we split the money. Simply put, it was toxic and
very soon, everything fell apart, because you cannot base a business on a
partnership that is not fair. It will never work out.

After learning to program, I have been on the other side of things, where
people (business students) have asked me to help them with their ideas. It
usually went like this - I will code and build the product, and my "partner"
would "market" and "handle everything else". Only then did I realize how
unfair, and offensive this type of offer was. Also, I came to the realization
that I was an arrogant child before.

Also, do understand that I wrote this answer with the very little information
you provided. If you have experience, and you are skilled in sales, marketing,
user acquisitions, or you are willing to invest money, and you are ready to
work your ass off, then yeah, this is a fair arrangement.

The way you asked the question, however, without any details, gives the
indication that you have no idea what you are doing.


2016年 07月 31日 星期日 12:36:18 CST:
Programmers: How do you come up with side projects to work on?
Carlos Matias La Borde
Carlos Matias La Borde, Software developer, BSc in CS
19.1k Views · Most Viewed Writer in Computer Programmers with 330+ answers
I have a lot of dumbass pipe dreams that I shoot for. Normally I fall short and
get bored, but I learn a lot going after them. I’ve always gone after them..
even back when I sucked.

So like one time I thought it’d be interesting to try and improve video latency
by predicting future pixel movement based on past movements (e.g. linear
regression or something like that). I didn’t really care if it could be done or
not, I just started trying it, because I though it’d be cool.

So I figured out how to get Sarxos going in Java for the web cam access, then I
figured out one of the fastest ways to get a pixel array (turns out to be
BufferedImage).

Then I tried a big neural net to see if that would be able to pull off the
prediction, but that was slow as balls. So instead I came up with an algorithm
to determine which pixels had changed in the past, say, 10 milliseconds, then
use that to calculate probable future movements.

It turned out to be slower (but still relatively fluid) due to the computing
power required to do it, but it looked dope as hell.. like if I was moving my
hand across the screen it would move faster after a quarter of a second, and it
left this weird ghost kind of slightly warped but invisible trail behind it.

Then I had the idea of clustering it and creating a bunch of different movement
vectors so that it could manage a number of things moving in different
directions. Then I got sucked into another project and didn’t have time to do
it, but I’m sure some simple k-means stuff and basic vector shit could manage
it.

That’s normally how I come up with it. I think about random shit until I get a
really interesting, ridiculously hard idea, then I plan for a bit and try to
make it.

What are the growth stages of a programmer?
Andreas Blixt
Andreas Blixt, programming since '96
53.8k Views · Andreas has 30+ answers in Computer Programming
I believe there's three phases in a developer's life:
The novice hacker
"This code sure is ugly and I don't quite understand why it works, but here it is!"

A developer in this phase finds creative solutions to problems, they just happen to be copy/pasted from all over the internet.

The problem is that the code breaks whenever it needs to be changed or it encounters a new situation.
The philosophizing abstracter
"This code works for now, but if I move this part into a factory, and create an interface for these methods, it'll also support all these future cases I can think of!"

They've read all the articles on how to structure code. There's a lot of patterns out there for object-oriented (or functional!) code. Their code has all sorts of useful interfaces, abstraction layers, factories, extension methods, data structures.

Things break down when the project needs to move in an unexpected direction and it turns out that implementing the change requires changing a lot of the codebase because there were a bit too many abstractions that ended up creating hidden dependencies across the code.
The wise hacker
"Move fast. Break things. Revise and fix. Get shit done."

Finally, developers balance the concepts of hacking and abstracting. They write code that simply solves the problem at hand, then they take a step back and look for repetition that can be simplified. They know from experience that things always change unexpectedly and that you can't always foresee what will or will not be useful in the future.
The two first stages of a developer can be very inefficient at solving problems for different reasons, but combining them together with experience is what makes a good developer.

I think it's beautiful that most of the time developers both start out as and end up as scrappy hackers.

What are simple way to know someone's personality?
Angie Neik
Angie Neik, I'm fortunate to know people in 52 countries around the world.
33.6k Views · Most Viewed Writer in Non-Verbal Communication and Body Language with 120+ answers
What are simple way to know someone's personality?

Observe the person in the following situations:

how much he talks about himself
how much (and in what context) he talks about others
look for sincerity
notice insincerity
based on what criteria he judges others
how he interacts with those above him (socially)
how he interacts with those below him (socially)
the topics he discusses
how much personal space he likes to claim (body language)
what makes him uncomfortable (facial expressions)
what he’s trying to say with his clothing, accessories, other adornments like piercings or tattoos
any unusual accessories (murse, ethnic or fashion hats, gloves (fashion), tiaras, chains with emblems, unusual watches, excessive jewelry)
Everything tells you something about a person, because everything that the person does, says, wears was a thought in his head, and serves a purpose in the way he likes to identify himself (either blend in or stand out) in society.

What is the best comment in source code that you have ever encountered?
Costya Perepelitsa
Costya Perepelitsa
238.3k Views · Upvoted by Jeff Nelson, Invented Chromebook, #Xoogler, Tapasweni Pathak, Developer @SAP Labs, Involved with open sources, Feminist., Phil Jones, and 5 others you follow
Costya has 210+ answers in Computer Programming
The best comment I've ever seen would have to be the Safety Pig:


​
I've never been quite sure how the pig was meant to help me handle the sketchy code just below it, but whatever it did, it worked.

We ended up making the inclusion of a Safety Pig a part of our debugging and hardening process:
"The way this code is structured makes memory leaks particularly difficult to spot. Add a Safety Pig and run your changes through valgrind before every commit."
"The compiler can't ensure type safety here, so we added a Safety Pig just in case."
"I don't have unit tests yet, but I did put in a Safety Pig." (almost worked)

For those of you who'd like your very own Safety Pig (ignore the first line; Quora code blocks automatically remove starting whitespace in the first line):
.
                         _
 _._ _..._ .-',     _.._(`))
'-. `     '  /-._.-'    ',/
   )         \            '.
  / _    _    |             \
 |  a    a    /              |
 \   .-.                     ;  
  '-('' ).-'       ,'       ;
     '-;           |      .'
        \           \    /
        | 7  .__  _.-\   \
        | |  |  ``/  /`  /
       /,_|  |   /,_/   /
          /,_/      '`-'
