我从中学习到的知识:
1. 记录下自己的时间, 自己的预估和实际有很大的差别.
2. 做自己认为最重要的事情.
3. 使用别人的长处不要太在乎别人的短处.
4. 把注意力放在贡献上.
5. 学习做决策

Executive must manage themselves for effectiveness if they expect others to follow
Intelligence, hard work and knowledge are not enough, others must use our output (results)
Effectiveness often goes opposite the flow of events
Effective results always external impact
Survival of the organization depends on producing the maximum contribution with the minimum of effort
Focus on maximum contribution imposes relevance on events.
To focus on contribution is to focus on effectiveness

Don’t do things right, do the right things
Effectiveness converts intelligence, imagination and knowledge into results
can’t be measured by traditional metrics
works from changes in trends not from events
others must make use of what we contribute
Efficiency (manual work) do things right
Not applicable to knowledge work
There are no results within an organization
Organizations are measured by their contribution to outside world
Need for resources grows with the cube of the siz

2) Focus on results, not effort
1) Know where time goes
3) Build on strengths  (Grant)
4) Do what counts  (Priorities)
5) Make effective decisions (page 24)
Judgement based on “dissenting opinions” 
Focus on a few right strategies
Minimize razzle-dazzle tactics

 I must make a significant contribute to the positive external results of my organization.
What is the unused potential in my job?
I must produce knowledge, ideas, information and concepts.
The must make my specialty useful.
I must take responsibility for being understood
I must be sure to provide that which others need
A “generalist” is a specialist that is universally understood.
It is the focus on “contribution” that leads to the communication that creates synergy.
Effective work comes from the discipline necessary to blend diverse knowledge into a collective success

Why are we having this meeting
Decision? Inform? Increase Focus?
What is the purpose and contribution
You can listen and direct a meeting
You can take part
You can’t do both!!!!!!
Always focus on the expected contribution

Unified strengths make individual weaknesses irrelevant
Staff to maximize strengths
“Find out what Grant is drinking and send a barrel to the other generals” Lincoln
“Here lies a man that who knew how to bring into his service men better than he was himself”  epitaph for Andrew Carnegie
Design jobs that are doable, demanding and large
must have enough challenge to bring out undiscovered strengths
Start with what they can do rather than what the job requires
Lead from personal strengths

Do one thing at a time
Executives not pressure should make the decisions
We often abandon that which we postpone
Achievement does not depend on ability, it depends on the courage to go after the opportunity.
Set your priorities by opportunities presented not by the likelihood of quick success.
It is just as risky to do something small and new as it is to do something big and new
Concentration - the courage to impose decisions on time and events
Focus on the completion of the one task now and let the situation to decide what is next

The specific executive task
Effective executives make effective decisions
Effective executives concentrate on the important decisions
The decision is strategic
The decision is based on abstractions at the highest level of conceptual understanding
The decision leads to real, effective simple action 
The decision is based on a few important variables
The decision is sound and makes a real impact

Is the problem the symptom or the disease
Bound the decision
Most difficult step
Exercise in judgement
Even wrong decisions should fill boundary conditions
1/2 loaf and 1/2 baby one fills boundary conditions
What is right verse what is acceptable
postpone the compromise until the end
Built in Action
most time consuming
who needs to know, what action, by who
Feedback

Decision is a judgement
Balance between “Almost right” and “Probably Wrong”
Right decisions grow out of the clash and conflict of divergent opinions
Right decisions grow on the consideration of competing alternatives
Events are not facts, we must have a criterion of relevance
People always start with an opinion
Most look for facts that already fit the conclusions that they have reached.
Traditional measurements are often not the right measurements
Look for different ways to measure success.
Don’t make a decision until there is disagreement.
The right decision demands adequate disagreement.
Disagreements is the birth of alternatives
Disagreement is needed to stimulate the imagination


Not going to be pleasant
Not going to be popular 
Not going to be easy
Decision making takes as much courage as it does judgement
The cry of the coward “Let’s make another study”
Decisions on the operating level are adaptations and require no real knowledge.

