What are the best answers for "Why should I hire you"?
Ashish Kedia, Have cracked a lot of interviews Updated Jun 22, 2016
I know this is going to be a little arrogant, but here is what I did.

I was asked a question like this by a senior staff of a reputed company and I replied -

Because you're looking for the best and I am at least one of the best you've found till now. Otherwise we wouldn't be having this conversation. You know it. I know it. Let's just seal the deal. I am not after the money or your brand name. I am only after a challenging project and I know I will get it here. I won't work for you. I will work for myself.

I got the offer 2 days later.

I usually hate answering questions like this. I hate talking about myself. Ask me technical questions. However I do understand that these questions help interviewers to analyse what's going on inside a candidate's brain.

I did't try to be diplomatic. Many other candidates do this. Everyone says they are confident, hard working and interested in company's product. I wanted to be different. Even if it meant being over-confident. And I didn't want to prove my worth from company's point of view. I do internship for myself more than anyone less. And that's what I wanted to tell. Whatever thought came to mind I just told without decorating it with any diplomacy.

What are some interview hacks?
Harshvardhan Saravanakumar
Harshvardhan Saravanakumar, Daily hack Jack.
Updated May 17, 2016
Some of the interview hacks I have found useful are:

Smile: This is the most powerful tool at your possession. Use it more often. It lightens up the mood inside the cabin as well.
Never sit with your hands on the interview table. I have experienced this first hand. In one interview I attended, the interviewer, personally told me that this shows a aggressive nature and should be avoided at all costs.
Never fold your hands while sitting. Just leave them in a comfortable position resting on your legs.
Give a firm handshake. Never extend your hand first. Wait for the interviewer to do it.
Dress well. Dress for the job you want and not for the job you have.
If you don't know any answer to a question in the interview, please give an honest answer for why you don't know it. Don't ever confuse the interviewer.
Research about the company you are attending. Be ready with questions that you could ask the interviewer.
Speak fluently. Don't imitate an accent if you can't.
Never speak ill about your previous manager/ organization.
Have a compact answer for the question - 'What was the reason you left your previous job/company?'
Never ever take out your phone in front of the interviewer. It is down right rude.
If there are more than one interviewers, and they have asked a few questions one after the other before you could answer even one of it, answer in the same order the question was asked to you to the same interviewer who asked it, slightly tilting your face to them. Never ignore or forget to answer even a single question. This may show that you were not attentive enough.
