Jerry Seinfeld's Productivity Secret

Editor: When software developer Brad Isaac told us he had productivity advice
from Jerry Seinfeld, we couldn't turn down the chance to hear more. Read on for
the whole story from Brad.

Years ago when Seinfeld was a new television show, Jerry Seinfeld was still a
touring comic. At the time, I was hanging around clubs doing open mic nights
and trying to learn the ropes. One night I was in the club where Seinfeld was
working, and before he went on stage, I saw my chance. I had to ask Seinfeld if
he had any tips for a young comic. What he told me was something that would
benefit me a lifetime...

He said the way to be a better comic was to create better jokes and the way to
create better jokes was to write every day. But his advice was better than
that. He had a gem of a leverage technique he used on himself and you can use
it to motivate yourself—even when you don't feel like it.

He revealed a unique calendar system he uses to pressure himself to write.
Here's how it works.

He told me to get a big wall calendar that has a whole year on one page and
hang it on a prominent wall. The next step was to get a big red magic marker.

He said for each day that I do my task of writing, I get to put a big red X
over that day. "After a few days you'll have a chain. Just keep at it and the
chain will grow longer every day. You'll like seeing that chain, especially
when you get a few weeks under your belt. Your only job next is to not break
the chain."

"Don't break the chain," he said again for emphasis.

Over the years I've used his technique in many different areas. I've used it
for exercise, to learn programming, to learn network administration, to build
successful websites and build successful businesses.

It works because it isn't the one-shot pushes that get us where we want to go,
it is the consistent daily action that builds extraordinary outcomes. You may
have heard "inch by inch anything's a cinch." Inch by inch does work if you can
move an inch every day.

Daily action builds habits. It gives you practice and will make you an expert
in a short time. If you don't break the chain, you'll start to spot
opportunities you otherwise wouldn't. Small improvements accumulate into large
improvements rapidly because daily action provides "compounding interest."

Skipping one day makes it easier to skip the next.

I've often said I'd rather have someone who will take action—even if
small—every day as opposed to someone who swings hard once or twice a week.
Seinfeld understands that daily action yields greater benefits than sitting
down and trying to knock out 1000 jokes in one day.

Think for a moment about what action would make the most profound impact on
your life if you worked it every day. That is the action I recommend you put on
your Seinfeld calendar. Start today and earn your big red X. And from here on
out...

Don't break the chain!
